Add Support for Tracking Parameter Names (named_parameters) in Optimizer State Dict (#134107)
pytorch/pytorch: docs/source/optim.rst

    lr_scheduler.OneCycleLR
    lr_scheduler.CosineAnnealingWarmRestarts

How to utilize named parameters to load optimizer state dict
--------------------------------------------

The function :func:`~Optimizer.load_state_dict` store the optional ``param_names``content in the
loaded state dict if present. However, the process of loading the optimizer state is not affected,
as the order of the parameters matters to maintain compatibility (in case of different ordering).
To utilize the loaded parameters names from the loaded state dict, a custom ``register_load_state_dict_pre_hook``

> needs to be implemented according to the desired behavior.

Author: Yes, load_state_dict (named_state_dict) will not base any decisions on the names (also for BC !)
All changes from the predicted (existing) behavior should be manually set by adding a "hook" to the process.

** This is beneficial since this feature is usually needed when there is a mismatch in the state dict (such as different layers, different order, etc.) and some manual adaptations are required according to the needs

> needs to be implemented according to the desired behavior.

Reviewer: oop yea i...forgot to come back to this comment once i had read the rest of the code.

    lr_scheduler.OneCycleLR
    lr_scheduler.CosineAnnealingWarmRestarts

How to utilize named parameters to load optimizer state dict
------------------------------------------------------------

> The function :func:`~Optimizer.load_state_dict` stores the optional ``param_names``content from the

Author: Probably missing whitespace after ``param_names``

Reviewer: if u want to open another pr to address, i'd approve it

    lr_scheduler.OneCycleLR
    lr_scheduler.CosineAnnealingWarmRestarts

How to utilize named parameters to load optimizer state dict
------------------------------------------------------------

> The function :func:`~Optimizer.load_state_dict` store the optional ``param_names``content in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function :func:`~Optimizer.load_state_dict` stores the optional ``param_names``content from the
```

loaded state dict if present. However, the process of loading the optimizer state is not affected,
as the order of the parameters matters to maintain compatibility (in case of different ordering).
To utilize the loaded parameters names from the loaded state dict, a custom ``register_load_state_dict_pre_hook``
needs to be implemented according to the desired behavior.

This can be useful, for instance, when the model architecture changes, but the weights and optimizer states need to
remain unchanged. The following example demonstrates how to implement this customization.

Example::

    class OneLayerModel(nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.fc = nn.Linear(3, 4)

        def forward(self, x):
            return self.fc(x)

    model = OneLayerModel()
    optimizer = optim.SGD(model.named_parameters(), lr=0.01, momentum=0.9)
    # training..
    torch.save(optimizer.state_dict(), PATH)

> Assuming that ``model`` implements an expert (MoE) and we want to duplicate it and resume training
> for two experts, both initialized same as the ``fc`` layer.
> For the following ``model2`` we create two layers identical to ``fc`` and resume training by loading the model weights
> and optimizer states from ``model`` into both ``fc1`` and ``fc2`` of ``model2``
> (and adjust them accordingly)::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say that ``model`` implements an expert (MoE), and we want to duplicate it and resume training
for two experts, both initialized the same way as the ``fc`` layer. For the following ``model2`` wecreate two layers identical to ``fc`` and resume training by loading the model weights and optimizer states from ``model`` into both ``fc1`` and ``fc2`` of ``model2`` (and adjust them accordingly)::
```

    class TwoLayerModel(nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.fc1 = nn.Linear(3, 4)
            self.fc2 = nn.Linear(3, 4)

        def forward(self, x):
            return (self.fc1(x) + self.fc2(x)) / 2

    model2 = TwoLayerModel()
    # adapt and load model weights..
    optimizer2 = optim.SGD(model2.named_parameters(), lr=0.01, momentum=0.9)

To load the state dict for ``optimizer2`` with the state dict of the previous optimizer such that both
``fc1`` and ``fc2`` will be initialized with a copy of ``fc`` optimizer states

> (to resume training for each layer from ``fc``), we need the following hook::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(to resume training for each layer from ``fc``), we can use the following hook::
```

            'fc.weight': 'fc.weight',
            'fc.bias': 'fc.bias',
            'bypass.weight': None,
        }

        clone_deepcopy = lambda d: {k: (v.clone() if isinstance(v, torch.Tensor) else deepcopy(v)) for k, v in d.items()}
        for param_id, param_name in zip(
                optimizer.state_dict()['param_groups'][0]['params'],
                optimizer.state_dict()['param_groups'][0]['param_names']):
            name_in_loaded = lookup_dict[param_name]
            if name_in_loaded in state_dict['param_groups'][0]['param_names']:
                index_in_loaded_list = state_dict['param_groups'][0]['param_names'].index(name_in_loaded)
                id_in_loaded = state_dict['param_groups'][0]['params'][index_in_loaded_list]
                # Copy the state of the corresponding parameter
                if id_in_loaded in state_dict['state']:
                    adapted_state_dict['state'][param_id] = clone_deepcopy(state_dict['state'][id_in_loaded])

        return adapted_state_dict

    optimizer2.register_load_state_dict_pre_hook(adapt_state_dict_ids)
    optimizer2.load_state_dict(torch.load(PATH)) # The previous optimizer saved state_dict

> Instead of loading a state according to the order of parameters (the default approach),
> this hook can be used to load according to the parameters' names::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a third example, instead of loading a state according to the order of parameters (the default approach),
this hook can be used to load according to the parameters' names::
```

    lr_scheduler.OneCycleLR
    lr_scheduler.CosineAnnealingWarmRestarts

How to utilize named parameters to load optimizer state dict
--------------------------------------------

The function :func:`~Optimizer.load_state_dict` ignores the optional ``param_names`` input in the

> loaded state dict if present (to maintain compatibility).

Reviewer: Is it better to say it treats like any other unfamiliar key in the state and will populate by just copy/paste?

To utilize the loaded parameters names from the loaded state dict, a custom ``register_load_state_dict_pre_hook``
needs to be implemented.

This can be useful, for instance, when the model architecture changes, but the weights and states need to
remain unchanged. The following example demonstrates how to implement this customization.

Example::

    class OneLayerModel(nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super(OneLayerModel, self).__init__()
            self.fc = nn.Linear(3, 4)

        def forward(self, x):
            return self.fc(x)

    model = OneLayerModel()
    optimizer = optim.SGD(model.named_parameters(), lr=0.01, momentum=0.9)
    torch.save(optimizer.state_dict(), PATH)

> Assuming that for the following ``model2`` we wish to load the states of ``fc`` of ``model`` into both ``fc1`` and ``fc2`` of ``model2``::

Reviewer: Do you have a concrete example of when someone wants to do this?

Higher level question: I would imagine a better example for registering a custom hook is to maintain the same names as the previous state_dict. Is that already the default behavior with no hook --> is there a test below that tests this?

Or you can answer this q: what happens without the custom hook? Will the param_names get copied over or will they get completely ignored (the new state_dict no longer has them)?

    # training..
    torch.save(optimizer.state_dict(), PATH)

Let's say that ``model`` implements an expert (MoE), and we want to duplicate it and resume training

> for two experts, both initialized the same way as the ``fc`` layer. For the following ``model2`` wecreate two layers identical to ``fc`` and resume training by loading the model weights and optimizer states from ``model`` into both ``fc1`` and ``fc2`` of ``model2`` (and adjust them accordingly)::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for two experts, both initialized the same way as the ``fc`` layer. For the following ``model2`` we create two layers identical to ``fc`` and resume training by loading the model weights and optimizer states from ``model`` into both ``fc1`` and ``fc2`` of ``model2`` (and adjust them accordingly)::
```

Author: Fixed in commit 9d7a208
